# SculpTron-RWaC-
The New Version of the RWaC initiative program, AZATHOTH!

This originally was going to be a GP Blocks project. However, although that door hasn't fully shut yet, it is definitely blocked off. Maybe we can excavate the doorway later.

This will be made in Processing, a spin-off library of the good old Java programming language. It has full compatibility with Raspberry Pis, and Arduino was built with Processing, so this will be the one we use.

With the strongest copyleft license available, development is now slowly underway. Having to rewrite the graphical sections, so this is more tedious than before. 

THE GOOD NEWS:
We have NURBS support! that's right, we are making curved surfaces possible with Slic3r! However...

THE BAD NEWS:
Due to the fact of Java Inheritance structuring preventing more than one class being a superclass of another, this is going to take some finessing to get the desired result. Hopefully, this won't take too much fussing with the code. 

THE BREAKDOWN OF WHAT'S WHAT:

P3dPoint is a subclass of PVector, because PVector is good, but I needed a way of identifying the individual points and displaying them uniformly. I don't see how this wouldn't render, but I have not checked it yet.

P3dLine is a subclass of NurbsCurve, from the NURBS library. This is intentionally done, as the NurbsCurve class is an extension of PVector. This adds a lot of extra constructors since it now has to handle inputs of PVector[] AND P3dPoint[]. Still optimizing this one. Have to make sure this works on render.

P3dFace is a subclass of NurbsSurface, which is also from the Nurbs library. NurbsSurface is an extension of NurbsCurve. This is the major focus of concentration currently, as this is not exactly ideal for calculations. A nurbs spline is wonderful, but a two dimensional one is very suspect to not be where it says it is... and we can't have a 3 dimensional shape that isn't a solid polyhedron/primitive object, otherwise we get a papery shell of zero width and zero structural stability. This one I also have to verify the render status.

P3dShape is subclass of PShape, and is meant to be a reworked PShape for 3D use only. PShape works in 3 dimensions... just not in a user-friendly way. Having to reiterate vertexes multiple times is tedious, and it takes a total of 16 vertice assignments to make the 12 vertices of a cube properly connected to each other, and then there's the problem of the shapes not always looking right with fill or nofill, so I'm just going to redesign it from the ground up with more geometrically convenient and intuitive code. As of today, I am officially declaring this class usable, but broken. It will not render. At all. If either of the others on the team want to take a crack at it, they are more than welcome to, I will update the files to the latest version and then y'all can have at it. The worst case scenario is we just go with regular PShape, and just implement automatic methods to make the 3D generation easier on users. Best case scenario is we find a magic oil lamp and get this class showing up on screen. I must be missing something obvious... but I can't fathom what.

"gui" is the interface for the user to conveniently make the shape they want, and provides multiple interactive features. This is from the G4P GUI designer, please do not touch this class. If you are using the Processing IDE, just ignore the "source not used" warnings. None of the buttons are connected to anything, and apparently that's a bad thing. if you want to make adjustments to the layout, use the G4PGUI editor tool. It auto-codes it for you. Absolutely indispensable tool.

Azathoth is the base program, the Main class. This starts up the whole thing. It is far from finished, but it's still (semi-) functional so far. Please try to make only simple changes here, the structure is correct and is automatically generated by the gui class, I will add markers for areas where you can make changes and where you can't. It looks clunky, but that's for optimization reasons, because computers tend to take instructions too literally, and sometimes you need to make sure something is correctly understood. Also, it's Java, which is by default cluttered and hard to read. (At least it's not Malbolge or BrainFuck. And yes, they literally named a programming language that.) It's definitely not Python though, or scratch, so it's going to be wordy and complicated.

If you have questions about variable names and purposes, feel free to message me for clarification. I don't necessarily use traditional variable naming conventions in my programs for security reasons, so it might be non-intuitive when you see a specific variable and it is not used in the expected way. I tried to explain where the declarations are, but I might have missed something that isn't obvious.

Remember to download the libraries in Azathoth, those are libraries that are needed for the code to compile. currently using Nurbs, G4PGUI, and (tentatively, if I can get it to work) Lunar. Will also add other libraries, but right now those are what I'm currently using.